# Archive
This is a repo for dumping notes & homework, released under CC-BY-NC-SA 4.0. 

PDF is usually compiled using `xelatex` & `biber`. However, if there are Feynman diagrams created with `tikz-feynman`, then it should be compiled with `lualatex`. The LaTeX engine to use is specified with a _magic comment_, e.g.
```latex
% !TeX TS-program = lualatex
```

For PDFs, please go to [Releases](https://github.com/bryango/Homework/releases/latest); they are also hosted on:
- https://bryango.github.io/resources/homework, a simple tree view built with pages;
- https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/bryango/resources/homework/, auto-generated by jsDelivr.

PDFs are generated by Github actions & workflows; for implementations, see `.github/`. 

## Strings2020 `strings`

String Theory, Spring 2020, by Prof. Chi-Ming Chang @ Tsinghua. 

Contents:
1. Classical spinning string, conformal transformations, bc CFT & Noether's theorem, SO(n) free fermion CFT and current algebra;
2. BRST current of bosonic string, detailed calculations of OPE, normal ordering ambiguity, linear dilaton CFT, bosonic strings on S^3 & Dirac's quantization, and anomalous current from curvature;
3. Perturbative calculation of beta functions, classical 11D gravity & Freund–Robin compactification, SUSY counting with Killing spinors, superspace formalism, and mixed diffeo-axial anomaly in standard model;
4. Vertex operators, contraction of exponentials, symmetry of 3-point functions, D0-string scattering calculated with CKV & image charge, and gluon-tachyon scattering;
5. Compact scalar with winding, zero point fixing, partition function and modular invariance, orbifold & twisted sectors, torus bc path integral, and torus propagator as a trace;
6. Type 0 superstring from consistency conditions, GSO projections & partition functions, KK mechanism & 5D theory, fiberwise T-duality from path integral, dilaton shift, cylinder diagram factorization & only one coupling in string theory;
7. T-duality of heterotic strings, Wilson line background & symmetry breaking, string junctions & SUSY counting, 2-pt / 3-pt functions in AdS/CFT from boundary-to-bulk propagators and conformal symmetry. 

## AdvancedQFT2020	`advqft`

Advanced Quantum Field Theory, Spring 2020, by Prof. Wenbin Yan & Prof. Dan Xie @ Tsinghua. 

### `gauge`

A non-technical note on the geometry of gauge theory, including bundles and connection, with discussions about tetrad formalism and spin connection in gravity. 
